Everybody, welcome to the RStudio Enterprise Community Meetup. I'm Rachel Dempsey. I'm
calling in from Boston today. I'll be your host for today's meetup. This is my first time trying
out YouTube Live. So I'm joined by my colleague, Tom Mock hanging out behind the scenes as well.
So thank you so much, Tom. If you've just joined now, feel free to introduce yourselves through
the chat window and say hello. Maybe put in where you're calling in from. For today's meetup,
we are joined by Paul Chang, Senior Data and Applied Scientist at Microsoft. So Paul is going
to share their data science workflow using R, RStudio Connect, and Azure for Capacity Planning
of Microsoft Data Centers. And so after Paul's presentation, we'll have lots of time for Q&A
as well. So you can put your questions in the YouTube chat, or you can use the Slido link as
well for anonymous questions. We'll share that in the chat. It's also in the YouTube video details.
But that Slido link is just rstd.io meetup questions. For anyone who's joining for the
first time, welcome to RStudio Enterprise Community Meetup. This is a friendly and open
meetup environment for teams to share the work they're doing within their organizations, teach
lessons learned, network with each other, and really just allow us all to learn from each other.
So while we usually meet on Zoom, we wanted to give YouTube Live a try here. Thank you all so
much for making this a welcoming community. We really want to create a space where everybody
can participate and we can hear from everyone. So just want to reiterate that we love to hear
from everyone, no matter your level of experience or industry that you're in as well. So we'll
share a few links in the video details as well. If you ever have suggestions or general feedback,
please let us know. But with that, thank you all so much for joining us, and I would love to turn
it over to our speaker for today's meetup, Paul Chang. Hey, Paul. Hey, great. Thanks, Rachel.
Thanks, Tom. And thanks, everybody, for joining in in this presentation. So yesterday, I will
be talking about capacity planning for Azure data centers. And this is a joint work with
our fantastic team, Sarah, Ivy, Yajun, Ritchie, Sajay, and Serge. But this is also
joint work with our former team members as well. So Amit, who's at Airbnb, and also Jingyi
and Yantao, who have moved on to different roles in Microsoft. Okay, so the agenda for
this presentation. So I will describe the capacity planning process for Azure data centers. I'll then
describe how we use RStudio Connect to generate these capacity plans, the value that we get from
RStudio Connect. And then I'll do a demo involving a simplified version of a Shiny dashboard
that we built. Okay, so before we get into the planning process, let's get to know
Azure a little bit. So Azure is Microsoft's cloud platform. We have 200 products and cloud services.
We serve over a billion customers worldwide. 20 million companies are on Azure.
And we're in 60 plus regions around the world. We have over 90 regulatory compliance offerings,
the most of any cloud provider. 95% of Fortune 500 companies are on Azure.
And Microsoft spends a billion dollars in cybersecurity every year. So Microsoft is
very, very passionate about data security, data privacy. Now, in order to enable these
cloud services, we have built a global infrastructure that consists of 165,000 miles
of fiber optic cable, over 200 data centers, and a lot of land, a lot of land.
Key features of our Azure data centers, high availability, low latency, so super important
for gamers, scalability. And by using Azure, we ensure that our customers have access to the
latest cloud technologies. Your data is safe and secure. So if you architect your workload in a
certain way, where your workload consists of multiple Azure services, those Azure services
can communicate with one another over the Microsoft network. So that IP traffic never
enters the public internet, and so your data stays safe and secure. Okay, so now let's talk about
capacity planning a little bit. So we are a group of economists, data scientists, and we work with
this fantastic group of program managers to produce the long-range capacity plan for Azure data
centers. Now, some characteristics of our plan. So we do look at the 127-year time horizon,
and the data center build-out process is characterized by somewhat long lead times.
So typically, roughly around the two-year mark, but in certain instances, that lead time could be a
lot longer than two years. We invest billions of dollars in our data centers and our global
infrastructure, and our capacity plan is for the 60-plus regions that we are in right now,
and with the hope of expanding into a lot more regions in the coming years.
Okay, in terms of our workflow summary, these are roughly the main entities that we interact with.
So note that this diagram is not necessarily reflective of our internal organizational
structure, but I think this captures the salient features of our workflow. So we're capacity
planning in the center there. We ingest data from hardware and region design. We ingest demand from
various partners to generate our demand forecast models and our capacity plans.
We also collaborate closely with finance to iterate on the capacity plans, and we also
collaborate with our supply team closely as well. So we give demand signals to our supply team.
They, in turn, do the hard work of figuring out where the supply is, where the most cost-effective
supply is, and they give that information back to us, which in turn affects or influences where we
shape demand. Okay, so now let's double-click on demand bucket first. So here are some main
categories of demand inputs that we consider. There's this bucket that we call organic data,
so it consists of economic data and historical Azure revenue that we use to feed into our
econometric and data science models. On top of that, we do consider capacity requests from
various Microsoft engineering groups, being Office 365, Xbox. As well, we also consider
capacity requests from our large customers. So we actually have a large team of people who talk with
governments and large enterprises, you know, Fortune 500 companies, and these customers,
when they onboard onto Azure or they make a new capacity request, those capacity asks are actually
pretty large usually. And so those type of large capacity requests are not necessarily forecastable
by the historical data. So for that reason, we really need to consider demand from large
customers as a separate bucket. Okay, in terms of hardware and region design,
so Azure services, right, so various Azure services actually depend on core Azure services.
Some Azure services have special server requirements, special hardware requirements,
so we need to take account of those considerations. The hardware roadmap,
that's another big input for us. So yeah, I don't know if Moore's Law is still valid or not,
but I think it is still our thinking that as time goes on, CPUs should become more powerful and
energy efficient. And so if CPUs and GPUs, they get better and better,
the thinking is perhaps we might need fewer servers and maybe even fewer buildings to serve
the same demand. Supply, so we build data centers, we lease data centers, and as I said before,
we want to know where the supply is around the world. Okay, so we ingest all that information
from our partners to produce the capacity plan. These are roughly four of the main pillars
that support our work, that allow us to produce the capacity plan. So the first is revenue forecasts.
So we have a revenue forecast model that employs a couple of well-understood models that we stitch
together, including a model on technology diffusion inspired by Diego Coleman. We have a
hierarchical time series model that allows us to distribute a worldwide revenue forecast down to
the geo and region level. We have a gravity model of trade. The hardware roadmap is another big
pillar that our team works on. So, I mean, Microsoft does have an internal hardware roadmap, but
it's not necessarily written in stone, right? So all sorts of things could pop up and that plan
may need to be changed from time to time. So we do want to actually forecast that hardware
roadmap as well, to the extent that we can. Capacity principles are also important, right? So
we need to account for the discrete sizes of various data centers due to their design, and we
also need to build in safety stock to account for supply lead time and volatility on both the supply
and demand sides. And the fourth is demand shaping, which I'll talk more about in the demo later in
this presentation. Okay, so that hopefully gives people a good overview of what we do, what's our
process. So to summarize, the demand info we use for our models comes from historical revenue
and sales data, as well as capacity requests from large customers and Microsoft engineering groups.
You need to account for hardware and region design requirements, including special or premium
hardware needed for various Microsoft engineering groups. Supply, so we need to be aware of the
places where we have plenty of supply and where we don't. In certain cases, we want to lease data
centers because of the lower lead time, and in other cases, we want to build data centers to have
more control and maybe lower costs. And in all we do, we want to be fiscally responsible.
So that's very important. Okay, so for our team, what are the top considerations for our team
for doing this capacity planning? I think the close to the top one is accuracy, right?
So like many other data science teams, we care very much about accuracy.
It's how we build credibility, super important that our models are accurate.
But that's not the only consideration that we need in order for our team to be successful.
So I think data science teams and models, they tend to over-index on accuracy,
but in order to make our models a success, we need other factors as well. So the other
big considerations are timeliness, right? So we need to produce capacity plans on time,
every month. Delays in publishing this plan can be costly, right? So we don't get new capacity
unless it is signaled in this plan. And if we don't get new capacity in a timely manner,
there's a risk of lost demand and other delays. So it's very important for us that we produce
plans on time consistently. Business strategy, so we need to be agile to incorporate new ideas,
thoughts, intelligence from our stakeholders and leaders. So we need to override inputs in case
new information comes in, or if there are occasionally data quality issues with some
of our input data. So if we do detect data quality issues, we need to be able to override
those inputs in a non-hacky way, in a robust non-hacky way. And the last one, I think in some
ways this might be the most important consideration, explainability. So we gain
trust only when we can explain the drivers behind the capacity plan in a clear and concise manner.
Shiny apps help a lot with this, by the way. So we love shiny apps, we love shiny dashboards.
I think it's only when our explanations are clear and concise that we are able to also be
transparent with our internal stakeholders and partners. So I really think explainability is
one of these key things that you need that enables us to be transparent. And when we are able to be
transparent and open with our partners about our model assumptions, about the input data that we
see, then we start building trust. So being transparent, that enables us to build trust
with our stakeholders. And that trust, it leads to more questions. So being able to build that trust
leads to us having good conversations with our internal stakeholders,
and that leads to more collaboration. So I think this entire chain of goodness that starts from
being explainable. Explainability leads to transparency, leads to trust, leads to
collaboration. So I think this is a big one for me. I'm very passionate about explainability.
Okay, so with that said, let me talk about how we use RStudio Connect to help us
address these considerations and help us do our work.
Okay, so let me paint a picture of our work life before adopting RStudio Connect.
So truthfully, it wasn't bad. It wasn't bad at all. It was not that great either,
but it wasn't that bad. So before using RStudio Connect, models were developed by
data scientists using R and C Sharp, and the data scientists would check that code in.
And they would be deployed by engineers in data pipelines using Databricks. It's important to
note that most of our data is mid-sized. So we typically deal with data that's, you know,
at most maybe 100 gigabytes roughly, right? So our team doesn't really deal with petabytes of data.
Other teams deal with petabytes. We don't directly deal with big data.
And so the pipelines would run in Databricks. It would take an hour for the pipeline to run.
It would dump the data in some database, and then people would sort of extract that data
and, you know, create static tables, static graphs, and paste them in PowerPoint presentations.
And then they would present these presentations with our stakeholders.
Our stakeholders would have feedback for us, and then our data scientists would have to
either create new models or modify existing models, and then the cycle would continue.
So what were the pain points before we started using RStudio Connect?
I think the big one for me was just slow. It was just slow, slow, slow.
Slow end-to-end development time, right? So that cycle that I just talked about,
you know, was like a couple days between when the data scientists would modify some
model to stakeholder feedback. And remember, we have to publish this capacity plan
on a monthly basis, right? There's 20 working days in a month, so three days is a long
time within that 20-day time span. So Databricks is great for big data,
right? So Databricks and also Azure Synapse, these are actually really great platforms for
dealing with big data, from getting insights from big data. But for our case, where we're
only working with a couple hundred gigabytes of data, it's actually a lot faster for us to run
our models on a laptop or on a desktop machine, right? So it's really, for our case,
it should not take an hour for the pipeline to run end-to-end.
Now, having said that, even in the current workflow, we still depend on big data.
I think some of our upstream teams, they probably use some of these big data platforms to produce
our input data. So I still think Databricks is great. I think Azure Synapse is great. But for
our particular scenario, it was, you know, we could get things done faster using something else.
Hard to do what-if scenarios. So if somebody wanted to change an input parameter from
one to two, you know, yeah, sure, change the input parameter one to two,
hit enter, and it'd take an hour for the results to come out. So that big lag between
changing an input and getting model results, you know, that makes it hard to do what-if scenarios.
And then visualization of results. So I will say that, you know, during this time period before
we onboarded to RStudio Connect, our data scientists were already experimenting with
creating R Shiny apps, right? So we were already testing that out. We were also,
we were already sort of using it internally in our team. But there was a big requirement,
right? There was a big desire for us to be able to share those Shiny apps with our internal
partners and stakeholders, right? So at that time, we didn't have a means of deploying Shiny apps.
And so I think it was really that need to be able to deploy Shiny apps that prompted us to
explore options, right? And so I think the great option that we landed on was RStudio Connect.
So before I get to this slide, a big shout out to Amit Gandhi, who is no longer with
our team. He's over in Airbnb. I think he's, I think he looked at this situation before,
and he was really instrumental, really, really instrumental in driving our team
to adopt RStudio Connect. So I think he's, I think he's the single person most responsible
for sort of shifting our team towards this new model of development.
So after we adopted RStudio Connect, what is the model for how we work? In this new world,
data scientists own the entire model development lifecycle. So data scientists write the data
ingestion jobs, they develop the models, they deploy models on RStudio Connect,
and they write Shiny apps to visualize results. We also use some R Markdown documents as well.
At the same time, our engineers remain vital, indispensable. The engineers,
we could not do our work without engineers. They are responsible for creating and maintaining the
infrastructure for running RStudio Connect and other Azure services. They are responsible for
creating the architecture. They also help shepherd the R packages that data scientists write.
So there are questions about data contracts, how can we ensure the data scientists work seamlessly
with each other, but also with other teams throughout Microsoft. So engineers have a big
part in that design work, data compliance and security. Of course, big topics, big areas of
responsibility for the engineers. Advantages. So as I said before, RStudio Connect empowers our data
scientists to directly communicate insights to stakeholders. They own the development lifecycle
end-to-end. The end-to-end development time is now quick, right? It can be as little as a couple
hours between model development to deploying the app on RStudio Connect to getting stakeholder
feedback. Easy collaboration between the data scientists. So we love the pins package, by the
way. So we share data sets amongst ourselves using pins. We write most of our code in R packages,
and we can share code between ourselves via R packages easily. And now it's easy to do
what-if scenarios, right? So we're able to deploy Plumber APIs, and we're able to write shiny apps
that talk to those Plumber APIs. And so in doing so, we're able to create dynamic apps, right, where
people can fiddle around with input parameters and do sensitivity analyses in essentially real time,
right? So it no longer takes an hour for people to explore, you know, what happens
if I change this parameter or that parameter. It's now real time, right, due to this combination
of shiny apps and Plumber APIs. So the return on investment on RStudio Connect is clear to us.
So we have been consistently on time and publishing the capacity plan every month. No
delays. As I said before, any delays are, they're potentially costly. So really being on time,
that's huge. Transparency and explainability. So I'm a big fan of shiny apps, shiny dashboards.
It's super quick to put together a dashboard and deploy it on RStudio Connect.
And even if some of the algorithms we develop are black boxes, if people can interact with
the models via the shiny apps, and if it kind of looks right, then that capability alone is
powerful, right? So sometimes it's really hard to sort of explain the guts of an algorithm.
If it, on the other hand, if it kind of looks right, if it performs as people expect it,
you know, in a lot of cases, that alone might be sufficient, right? That alone might go a long
way towards explainability and building that trust that I talked about. And finally, I think
our data scientists are just happier. I think they're just happier with this new world.
In terms of the data flow, so let me just touch upon this briefly. Describe sort of some,
how some of the things we do to ingest data, and also some of the products that we create
using the RStudio Connect platform. So we do run RStudio Connect on a Linux D16 VM.
We consume data sources from our internal partners via APIs, Cosmos DB, Data Explorer,
which is also known as Kusto, and also some SQL databases. We have a mechanism for incorporating
that human intelligence via CSV files that we store on Azure Blob Storage, okay? So it is a
robust mechanism that can use to override any input data source as appropriate. Our team stores
data using the PINS package and the Azure Store R package, right? So we store our data on Azure
Blob Storage. We deploy Plumber APIs, and the Plumber APIs, they power a number of downstream
applications as well. I love Plumber API, right? It's just super easy to just, with a few lines of
code, you can just go and deploy the API on RStudio Connect. And yes, and of course we spend a lot of
time developing shiny apps, and we do do some farm work there as well. And of course we use a whole
bunch of Microsoft and Azure services. So not only do we plan for Azure data centers, we are also
users of Azure services ourselves. So one special shout out to Excel, by the way. So our team, I mean,
we love RStudio Connect, we love dplyr and PyD, but we still remain big fans of Excel. So I think I've
So my philosophy on this and other topics has been, it's not an either-or situation, it's an
and situation, right? It's like, we don't have to pick between RStudio and Excel, we can do both,
right? We can use both products successfully in our process. And by the way, there are people who
work almost entirely in Excel, but they have a worksheet where they can pull the latest capacity
plan, and they do that via the Plumber API. So that is a scenario that I've seen some of our
internal customers use. Okay, so before I get to the demo itself, let me give a brief introduction
to availability zones. So availability zones are physically and logically separated data centers
with their own independent power source and pooling. Okay, so the basic idea is that if
one of these zones go down, right, perhaps due to some natural disaster or,
you know, or maybe somebody accidentally hits the power off switch. So if any of these things
happen, then those workloads can fill over to another availability zone, and that workload
can continue to function. So it's this fill over capability that gives our customers workloads that
high availability, right? It's how we can guarantee these high SLAs for our customers.
Now, in terms of demand, we actually think of a demand as split into three buckets. So there is a
portion of demand that we think of as being pinned to a particular zone. So this workload must
happen in this physical location, right? So there is that type of demand. There's a second class
of demand where it's just, you know, it just has to be replicated across all three zones,
mainly for that resiliency that I was talking about. And the last type of demand is this
discretionary demand. So there's this third type of demand where we are basically free to
allocate that demand into any or all of these availability zones as we see fit. Okay, so now,
so we can place this demand, we can allocate this demand however we want. And so then the question
is, well, how should we allocate this demand, right? So there are a number of policies that we
might want to optimize for, right? So one might be we want to allocate demand in such a way that
we try to maximize and equalize the amount of excess supply that we have in any of the three
zones, right? So that's perhaps one policy objective. Another policy objective might be
we want to push demand to zones where we can get the most cost-effective supply,
right? So, and there could be others as well, right? There are other heuristics, other policy
decisions or policies that we might want to consider when we're trying to allocate this
discretionary demand. Okay, so some background on the demo that you're about to see. So I have
implemented a new algorithm for distributing this discretionary demand. I spent hours debugging
the code and debugging the code and debugging the code. And at the end of that, I was finally able
to create a first version of the capacity plan with this new algorithm. And so I shared the
results with our program managers and other partners. And the feedback was, you know,
there was some feedback that said, hey, look, this doesn't look right, right? This result doesn't
look right. And so there are some genuine bugs that were found. And so I went and fixed those bugs.
But there was other feedback that was like, hey, you know, I'm not quite sure what the algorithm
is doing in this particular region. I would get questions like, hey, can you actually explain what
this algorithm is actually doing? I'm not quite sure I understand, right? And so it was apparent
to me after getting that feedback that I really, really needed some type of visualization to build
trust in the algorithm that I just developed, right? To give people a sense of what the algorithm
was doing without actually having to delve too deep into the details. So given that,
I spent a couple hours putting together an interactive demo that would allow people to
adjust some model parameters and to get a feel for the algorithm, right? And so if people can
even just get a feel for the algorithm, then I think that would build trust and confidence in
the algorithm, even if I don't delve too deeply into the nitty-gritty details of the algorithm.
Okay, so now let me show the demo of that tool that I just talked about.
Okay, so let's see here. Okay, so the tool that I was just talking about,
it is, I used a shiny dashboard to build this tool that tried to explain this new algorithm
for allocating discretionary demand. We are looking at supply and demand graphs for a fictional region
here, right? So this is, this particular region is HALA. I know Tom is a big fan of Captain Marvel
and I'm sure that Microsoft would want to build data centers on HALA if it could.
But anyways, on the top we see regional supply demand, right? So this is supply and demand that's
aggregated on the region level. The black line here is demand and on the bottom here you see
the demand and supply distributed amongst the three availability zones. So AZ-1,
AZ-2, AZ-3, and you're also looking at a base case scenario here. We also have info boxes,
right, at the bottom. So there's this risk index, the supply risk index that is color-coded to be
either green, yellow, or red, as well as a demand forecast value for the end of fiscal year 2024.
Okay, and so on the left side here and the right side there are sliders that allow users to adjust
model parameters. The left sliders allow users to vary the safety stock that we hold in each
availability zone. The right sliders, they limit the maximum amount of discretionary demand
that we can allocate to a particular availability zone. And before I start playing around with the
input parameters, I want to stress again that all computations are live. So as I vary the sliders,
calls are being made to a plumber API in the backend and the model is actually re-computing
the results you see, right. So for instance, I might want to increase the safety stock in AZ-2,
right. So if I do that, then you see that there's this new dashed line that pops up.
This corresponds to the what-if scenario. You can see the effect of changing this input parameter
on output results. I can also, for instance, if I limit the discretionary demand that goes to AZ-1.
Okay, so if I limit the demand going to AZ-1, you see that the demand line in AZ-1 goes down,
but of course that demand should be redistributed to other AZs as well.
So it was through this tool that people got a sense of what the algorithm was doing.
And so, yeah, it seems to be doing the right thing, right, even though I didn't exactly explain
the nitty-gritty details of the algorithm. One more minor success story associated with this
tool. So I'm going to switch to the grand city of Minas Tirith here. So here's another example
that is somewhat similar to a real-world case. So the program manager came to me and he was looking
at results, looking similar to this, and he was concerned about this supply gap in AZ-2.
Right, so it was, you know, so yes, the algorithm is doing its thing, it's distributing demand,
but still, you know, there's this little gap here, right? Maybe the algorithm isn't doing
the right thing. So at that time, it was really too late in the publication process for me to
make any changes to the code. So I wasn't going to make any changes to the algorithm at this point.
So what we did instead was, hey, you know, let's, can we try to adjust the input parameters a little
bit to see if we can make things better, right? So it was through this interactive tool where we
played around with parameters that we eventually settled on a solution that looked like this,
where we said, hey, what if we just limit the amount of discretionary demand that goes to AZ-2?
And so you see that when we did that, all of a sudden, the supply risk
index turns green. It turns green in this case. So that was, you know, it was a minor success story,
but, you know, I felt very happy about that, right? Not only was this tool able to inform,
give people a sense of what the algorithm was doing, but we even used it to do a little
planning, right? We even used it to actually implement the change in the input parameter,
and that became part of our official plan of record. Another tool that we built,
it's this, you know, long-range capacity plan comparer. So we built this tool to compare the
month-over-month changes between different versions of the capacity plan, right? So for
this synthetic data set, we have a capacity plan for December 2021 and an updated plan for January
2022. So, you know, people can click execute, get results. So I clicked again.
So again, it's just talking to a plumber API in the background. And so, yeah, so this table,
by the way, is a reactable table. And so people can quickly see that, hey, you know,
on the regional level, the latest capacity plan is asking for, you know, 30.5 units of data center
in June 2022. That goes up to about 60 in June 2025. And you can see the deltas, right? The
month-over-month changes between the latest version of the capacity plan versus the previous months.
And people can also drill down a little bit too, right? Like, hey, what are the contributing
factors to this regional forecast, right? The organic component, the networking component,
the engineering component. Now the real version of this tool actually has a lot more tables and
features. I had to strip out most of the features for this presentation.
Okay. But, you know, for instance, people can also click on the engineering table, right? And,
hey, you know, what are the components of these engineering capacity asks, right? So you can see,
hey, different engineering groups have different capacity requests. Okay. So that's that. I think
that about does it for the demo. Let me end this off. Two more slides. So, okay. Here's a,
you know, suggestion, right? So if you are interested in trying out RStudio Connect on Azure,
how would you go about doing that? Well, I recommend people create an Azure account if
they have not already done so. You know, I personally love it. I love Azure. I love using
Azure products. So it's, if I remember correctly, I think there are some trial credits that people
can get to sort of try it out. Highly recommend Azure services. For the purposes of trying out
RStudio Connect on Azure, right? You can provision a Linux virtual machine. We ourselves settled on
Ubuntu 18. I think you can also use Ubuntu 20. Install a trial version of RStudio Connect
on that VM. If your organization is adopting one of these hybrid cloud strategies, you might also
consider provisioning an ExpressRoute instance. So ExpressRoute allows for secure communications
between your cloud VM running RStudio Connect and your on-prem network. And finally, we do use
Azure Active Directory for user authentication in RStudio Connect. Okay. So, and then finally,
I just want to really, really thank all our fantastic internal partners at Microsoft and
our program manager teammates, our teammates at finance and supply. We just have a fantastic team.
I'm a very, very happy person here at Microsoft. And a special thank you to Rachel, Tom, and Mitch
for helping us onboard to RStudio Connect. So, tremendously helpful in guiding us through the
process, giving us tips on how to deploy Shiny. Tremendously, tremendously helpful.
And so, with that, I will toss it back to you, Rachel.
Awesome. Thank you so much, Paul. It's really amazing to see how you showed that it can be one
hour from model development to stakeholder feedback in that example. I know there's a lot
of questions coming in. And depending on where you're watching from, if you're on LinkedIn,
when you comment there, the questions will get to us as well. Or you can put comments into Slido
or the YouTube chat as well. And Tom is in the background helping me with that. But I see
Paul, Neil had asked a question that was, how are you measuring accuracy?
Oh, that's a big topic. One of our program managers, he's passionate about accuracy.
I will say that our team has actually been at this for almost five years now. So, we are in
a relatively rare position where we did some forecasting back in 2017, and we're actually
able to see whether those predictions hand out in the year 2021 and 2022.
So, I don't think anything beats actual real-world confirmation.
Great. Thank you. Hey, Monica, I see you had asked a question on YouTube as well.
Can you give an example, Paul, of what a shiny dashboard with explainable metrics would look like?
So, we actually did create another tool that gave some summary statistics of our data-centered
capacity plans. So, these are, I mean, a lot of these metrics are familiar to our internal
stakeholders, right? So, they actually have metrics that they are comfortable with. And so,
we actually tried to create metrics that sort of talk to them. We loved shiny dashboards. I'm
actually a big fan of shiny dashboards. So, you know, those boxes. I think that was great.
Cool. Thank you, Paul. I'm going to read over a question from Slido as well. So,
you can ask anonymous questions there too. One of the questions was, are multiple models used
for the various forecasts or is a single most accurate model chosen for each variable?
So, we do have – we do – we have considered multiple models. I think my description of
how we're doing the demand forecasting, right, is this model of technology
diffusion inspired by Diego Coleman coupled with this hierarchical time series
model. I think that is what we're using right now. I mean, if the question is about, like,
do we do, like, you know, random forests or some sort of ensemble, our team currently doesn't – we
don't currently use that. But I do know that there is – we do have a partner team that does
exactly that, that uses an ensemble approach. Thanks, Paul. I'm just going to keep throwing
questions at you because there's a lot of great ones here. One was, was forecast modeling a
data analyst-driven initiative or was this primarily through management?
Oh, that's a good question. I think in some sense it's a bit of both, right. I mean,
there's a lot of history to that. I mean, certainly within Microsoft, Microsoft understands
the value of data science and, you know, analyzing data, right. So, Microsoft has many, many other
initiatives, right, you know, involving AI and vision and so forth. So, Microsoft has already
bought into this idea of, hey, you're developing forecasts using data science. At the same time,
though, there is a little bit of a bottoms-up feel to this as well. I mean, I think our data
scientists are tremendously empowered to actually come up with their own ideas, right. It's like,
hey, you know, I think we have a better forecast or maybe we can do things differently. So, I think
on our team, we really empower our data scientists to sort of drive other initiatives
beyond what management tells us. That's great. I am going back over to some of the questions
from LinkedIn, too. We're jumping all over the place here, but Ethan asked,
I saw that Power BI was utilized as well. Were there any reasons why you ported this over to
Shiny? Was it just more convenient to use Connect as a platform? So, I will, before I answer that,
I will say that we still use Power BI dashboards as well, right. So, I think I said this before,
my philosophy isn't necessarily an either-or situation, right. So, it's many, you know,
many tools. So, we do have a fantastic Power BI platform as well, and then we do use Power BI.
But having said that, I think our data scientists, they're most proficient in R,
and so it's just easier to code up Shiny apps. It's a familiar language, it's R-based,
lots of great packages, and you can test it very quickly on your own desktop machine before
deploying it to RStudio. So, at least for our team, it is way more convenient to use RStudio
Connect and to deploy Shiny apps. At the same time, there's a definite role for Power BI as well.
Definitely. A lot of other anonymous questions coming in, too, and one was,
when publicizing forecasting and planning, how is feedback managed? Are analysts given leeway
to consider model feedback, or is it more centrally managed? I think there's a mix
there, right. So, it's not like there's a central team that sort of takes all the feedback and then
tells us what to do. It's not like that at all. Analysts are definitely given leeway. We definitely
have a lot of control over sort of what things we do. We are still very time-constrained,
by the way. So, we're actually quite busy. We can't do it all. So, we do have to be a little
bit selective in some cases, right. It's like, hey, let's go after the big-ticket items, the
high-priority items. The other aspect to this is that alongside, I actually didn't mention this,
but alongside our use of RStudio Connect, we also developed a business process that goes along
with that, right. So, as I said before, I really like this idea where explainability leads to
transparency, leads to collaboration. I really think that that is true. And so, in our case,
that really did happen. We actually did get a lot more collaboration from our partners. So,
every month, we have these forums, right, with multiple partners where our entire team of
program managers, data scientists, we sit in the forum alongside our stakeholders. And it's in that
entire forum that we consider, hey, here's the latest plan, you know, what's the latest changes,
what are the input drivers. So, it's all very open. We have these fantastic forums where we're,
you know, getting feedback and collaborating, sometimes in real time. So, it's just really
great. I love that. I'd love to learn more about that, too. How did you start those forums?
I think it's mainly about organic process, I guess. So, I mean, as I said, the world before,
we did have, you know, presentations to partners and stuff. I think it's,
at this point in time, those are much more, you know, the scheduling is much more expected,
right. So, we have a monthly process and we have, you know, dates when certain forms happen,
when certain deliverables happen. So, I guess, I think it's probably, from my perspective,
I think that kind of grew organically, I guess. Nice. I see a great question on YouTube
that came in from Darren, and I'm really curious about this, too. What is your biggest future
feature request for RStudio Connect or the packages that you're using? Oh, man.
So, like any, again, love RStudio Connect. I do. So, I, myself, so I do use RStudio Connect heavily,
but I also use a SQL and C Sharp and Visual Studio heavily as well. So, and so I think some
of the debugging features in Visual Studio, I think it's easier to debug code in Visual Studio
than it is in RStudio. So, it's feedback. I think, you know, I would be very happy if
there were future improvements to RStudio to sort of make the debugging experience a little
bit more like Visual Studio. To the RStudio team listening, we'll write that one down.
Going back to, I know, the question about Power BI and RStudio Connect, I see Thomas
had a comment as well that said, great presentation. We have embedded Power BI
dashboards within our Shiny apps and use Azure functions for some plumber APIs.
Is that an architecture you consider, too? I didn't even know that was possible. I'll have
to try that out. So, you take the Power BI and you sort of embed it in the Shiny app?
Wow, that could be a whole different thing. Thomas, I think that's a great presentation,
too. We'd love to see that. Yeah. I see there's, let's see, some other questions from
LinkedIn. Paolo asks, what's the main reason to use a REST API when rerunning the model?
I think, so from an engineering perspective, you want to decouple the graphical user interface
from the underlying model and code. So, APIs, they really provide a,
you know, language-independent way of sort of decoupling back-end code from
GUI. So, I think that's very good design. Thanks, Paul. One of the anonymous questions
that came through is, who are the users of your platform, like teams and titles, for example,
and how many concurrent users can your app handle at one time?
So, at this point, to be honest, we are still running on one Linux VM. So, it is highly available,
but it is just one Linux VM. We should expand that out. So, use Azure scale sets to sort of
have multiple VMs. I think our license right now, it's a couple hundred users, right? So,
I think we can handle a couple hundred users maximum at this point. But, yeah, to really
scale out, we need to sort of stand up more Linux VMs and have that use an Azure scale set.
Thanks, Paul. I realize an hour went by really quickly and just want to double-check that you
have a few more minutes to ask a few other questions. Okay, great. I see Heath has said,
I'm impressed that you train and deploy models in hours rather than days.
What is the pipeline that you're using for modeling? Is that tidy models?
So, training and deploying. So, I think there are certain ways of running your data pipeline where
you do the majority of training sort of at the front of the process, if that makes sense. So,
at the front of the process, if that makes sense, right? So, I mean, think of,
so what is that again? Think of transfer learning, right? So, in the transfer learning scenario,
the models are almost already pre-trained and you're sort of simply sort of replacing the last
layers of that model to sort of adapt that model to whatever situation you're looking at. Now,
our situation is not quite like that, but it is true that, and as I said, we're not working with
petabytes of data either. We are working with hundreds of gigabytes of data. So, that's another
reason why it's faster for us to sort of run the models on our local machines, right? If anything
takes days, we're back to Azure Synapse, right? Then we're not running these things on our local
machines anymore. Thanks, Paul. Someone asked, are you all using linear programming to do these zone
modeling functions for the discretionary demand piece? The short answer is no. I actually think
that in my, so I've actually worked on a couple other projects where, you know, these types of
constraint satisfaction problems where, you know, you're trying to allocate demand or allocate,
you know, number of seats or whatever in some problem. I've actually, to be honest with you,
I've actually never used linear programming in practice myself. I've often used these types of
quote-unquote traditional AI techniques to try to do the optimization. In this particular case,
it's actually simpler than that. We just, there was just a bunch of heuristics that we employed
in the algorithm. And so, I'm pretty sure that the heuristics that we employed are not
necessarily optimal. There is a case to be made to sort of balance between optimality
and explainability, by the way, right? So, if you try to optimize your algorithm too much,
you have a, in general, you might have a harder time explaining. So, the short answer is no,
we don't use linear programming. Thanks, Paul. There was another question about the dashboard
itself. So, for external and internal users of the dashboard, is there a need to consider other
layouts to accommodate needs of different stakeholders? Oh, that's an awesome question.
So, we do have a bunch of tentative projects within Microsoft, right? So, these are projects
where only certain people within Microsoft should have access to that information. So,
in that case, we actually came up with a simple solution, right? So, we do have access to other
databases within Microsoft that says that, hey, this set of users have access to this information,
right? And so, we basically put in if switches in the Shiny app, right? That says, if the user
is in this group, then go ahead and enable this conditional panel to sort of show that data.
Yeah, that's a great question. Thank you. One other question that came on YouTube,
jumping over there, was from Robert. It asks, how do you tackle troubleshooting
the application itself on Azure when problems come up?
Troubleshooting on Azure itself. So, I have to be honest, and this is truth here. We haven't
had much problems with Azure itself. So, I think our main focus when we did have to debug was
actually, you know, our logic, right? So, our code, our Shiny apps, you know, sometimes our
C-sharp code. So, it's, you know, a lot of the debugging and troubleshooting is on that front.
Our Azure services have been, the services we use, they've actually have been pretty stable,
highly available. So, we haven't had the opportunity or the necessity to have to troubleshoot.
Thanks, Paul. One other question about Azure. On Slido, someone said, the Azure VM sizing seems
quite huge. Is that for RStudio Connect or R processes only, or are there other processes
running on the VM? So, our Linux VM is totally dedicated to running the RStudio Connect.
So, yes, it is a little big. Yes, there are some models, right? Because we're not running
on a distributed computing system, right? So, we have to, some models, we do need some extra CPU
power. So, yeah. Thank you so much, Paul. I think I've gone through
most all of the questions. Let me see if others are chatting in there on YouTube or LinkedIn.
One question that I had for you was around communicating with different stakeholders
across the business. And once you made that application, how do you actually get people
to use it? And any tips that you have for us all? Oh, so, there was a time when we were
there was a time when we first created the Shiny app, where Amit Gandhi basically assigned
all the data scientists to go on a selling spree. So, he actually said, hey, you know,
Jingyi, go talk to this group. Yes, I'll go talk to that group. So, there was, initially,
there was a bit of a process. We actually had to go on a selling spree, right? A real show.
So, I think that was good. I think that actually, you know, it's, I'm not sure if that's necessarily
within our comfort zone. So, force us to do something new. It is important to sort of
advertise, right? So, if you build it and you don't advertise, nobody's going to come.
But at the same time, though, as I said before, we did have a, you know, there was a world before
RStudio Connect. So, we already had stakeholders and partners. So, from that perspective, it was
just easy, right? It's like, hey, we built this app. Please check it out and, you know, demo it
during one of these presentations, right? But it was important, right? Because we started
showing these Shiny apps. And as I said before, right? Hey, now it's explainable. Now it's,
now you're getting more transparent. You're, you know, showing us all the assumptions and stuff.
So, yeah, we had to go on a bit of a sales mission there.
That's great. I love that. Going on the selling spree for the app.
I see there's one other question, sorry, two other questions left. And one was, how often
do Microsoft Teams use Python and its web frameworks compared to RStudio and Shiny dashboards?
So, to be honest with you, I'm not exactly sure about the, I'm not exactly sure about the
percentage. So, I do know that there are a lot of users of Python throughout Microsoft. I do know
that there are actually also, you know, some teams within Microsoft that uses R, right? Like,
our team. And I know there's a couple of other teams out there as well.
In terms of actual percentage, I won't hazard a guess. But I will say that, you know, RStudio
Connect, as I understand it, you know, you're able to deploy both Python and R. And you can,
you know, access Python via reticulate, right? So, I think in some sense, you know, again,
it's not one of these either or situations. We can use both Python and R. Even though our team
hasn't used Python yet, that doesn't necessarily mean that we won't in the future. We might. There
might be some things that, you know, Python is more appropriate for. Right. I was looking for a
link to share in the chat, but I can't do two things at once right now. But yes, you could share
like Flask, Dash, or Streamlet, for example, to RStudio Connect as well.
Let me just double check on any other questions. The one last question was,
for the Plumber APIs, is that only running R code or do they call C Sharp or any other?
Oh, that's also a great question. So, there is a lot of the Plumber APIs,
they are running R code. But we do have R packages that call into a web server that's
running on C Sharp. So, again, it's not one of these, it's not an either or situation.
So, there is some functionality that we needed that could not be done in R,
and so we use C Sharp for that. And we made sure that the R code connected with the C Sharp code.
But from the perspective of our data scientists, it's seamless, right? They may not even realize
that that's C Sharp code in the end. You know, from their perspective, it's just an R package
making calls. Thank you so much, Paul, for staying on with us. And I know I said last
question before, but I really mean it. I see in the chat, someone just asked,
how do you maintain the reproducibility of the application? Is there any containerization process?
So, is that referring to reproducibility of the results itself? Like, are plans reproducible?
I think it might be about deploying the application. And let's see, feel free to jump in.
I mean, the application itself, I mean, that's pretty reproducible, right? We use Git,
we use Git, so we check in code. We have an Azure DevOps pipeline that sort of deploys
some of these shiny apps and plumber APIs to the RStudio Connect. So, that part is reproducible.
The more interesting question, perhaps, is reproducibility of our results. And so,
again, I showed that LRP Comparer app, right? Comparing different versions of a capacity plan
and trying to understand the different input drivers, right? What's changed between last
month and this month? So, I think that itself, it makes it very reproducible.
I think we just, not to say that we take it for granted. I mean, work needs to be done to ensure
that our results are consistent, reproducible, robust, there aren't any bugs. So, there's a lot
of work that needs to be done to make sure that we eliminate bugs. And when you eliminate bugs,
you are reproducible in our case. Definitely. Well, thank you so much,
Paul, for answering all the questions here. And it's great to see how many people have
had questions on LinkedIn and YouTube and on Twitter. So, I'd say this was a great
YouTube Live experiment for us here. But thank you so much, Paul, for an amazing presentation.
I really appreciate your time and sharing your experience with us here.
That's awesome. And thanks so much, Rachel and Tom and everybody at RStudio for hosting us.
We really appreciate it. I know you shared quite a few links at the
end of your slides on getting started with Azure, for example. So, I'll be sure to share the slides
with the YouTube recording. But I can take out some of those helpful links, too.
Awesome. Awesome. Well, thank you all for joining. And thank you so much, Paul.
Have a great rest of the day, everyone. Great. Thank you.
Bye.